what is a lead magnet and why does your
website need one
hey i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host of the top 100
marketing podcast
business growth show alright so research
tells us that even the very best website
even if it's got the
design that's perfected for your idle
custom over and it's been optimized to
the hills
it's not going to convert much more than
10 of the traffic that you get
into either inbound leads or customers
so that in mind many of us are spending
a lot of money
a lot of our time they're doing
in-person events maybe we're doing
things on social media we're doing paid
ads maybe we're doing seo
maybe doing email to drive all these
people to our site
we want as many of them to convert into
inbound opportunities
for our sales team as possible right
that's where lead magnets come in so
a lead magnet is basically a free item
in exchange for contact details
typically an email address
what is a lead magnet what does one look
like well it could be a video guide
so maybe you've got some kind of video
explainer series
where you go through kind of the
benefits of your product or the problems
itself so maybe you've got practical
tips
just explaining how people can get the
best use of your product and basically
give them value before they decide to
buy
maybe you've got a how-to guide so
perhaps
in our case we might say how to design a
website that converts idle clients or
how to set up an seo strategy from
scratch or maybe you're an accountancy
company
um and you're making guides on how to
set
up a spreadsheet or how to manage your
accounts for the year with ease
um or how to integrate quickbooks into
your site so these kind of
how-to guides some of the best ideas
some of the best ways to create how-to
guides
is utilize what that is already demand
for so
if customers are asking you questions on
sales calls on sales emails
quite regularly then make a list of
these chuck them in a how-to guide
because you know that people will
probably need the content that you're
going to put together
could be a best practice guide so best
ways to tackle xyz or five top tips when
it comes to producing y
or 20 things to consider before you do x
or if you're an e-commerce it could be
the
the five top trends of this fashion
outfit so that's another option there
or it could be a podcast series which is
something we do with business growth
show
we interview business leaders each and
every week and we do solo episodes just
like this one
um we don't get that but that is content
you could get
um by asking people to put an email
address before you give them the the
juicy bit of content just make sure
whatever you're doing
it's highly helpful it's actionable it's
relevant it's actually a useful piece of
content
people don't want junk so make sure
you're putting something together that
you know has actually
been asked for by customers before and
you're making it as helpful to them as
possible that's key
so yeah like i said all you're really
asking for is their name
email some people just ask for email on
their lead magnets but if you can get
their name that
that helps a little bit more in terms of
what we're going to talk about in a sec
are these red hot leads well not
typically
because they've just downloaded a piece
of content they've given you that email
possibly their name and email
however with that said if you nurture
these leads
over time that could be with some kind
of email sequence
once someone signs up once they give you
their content give you their email
rather
you can nurture them via some kind of
email sequence so that could be
over time you're feeding them useful
tips so every few days you send them a
useful email
something relevant to what they
downloaded maybe it's five tips each day
maybe it's an extra video maybe it's an
extra podcast maybe it's an infographic
maybe it's an additional guide
a youtube series over time you're
building trust you're sending them
something that's helping them
or you're nurturing over social so
especially in the b2b space if you've
got these leads coming in you might be
connecting them on linkedin
you might be commenting on their posts
you might be sending them useful links
and basically building up rapport and
nurturing these prospects over time
until it comes to a stage where you've
built enough trust
you've built enough rapport that you can
ask them to take the next step in your
sales process
and that might be scheduling a call that
might be if you offer a lower value item
asking them to buy that might be booking
a demo
whatever that next stage in your sales
process
meaning over time you're gaining more
prospects you're getting more customers
in your pipeline getting more deals and
sales
over the line because like we said at
the start the even the best websites are
not really converting much more than 10
of their traffic so if you've got a lead
magnet it just gives
people the option rather than having to
fill out a detailed form rather than
doing a detailed demo request where
you're usually
asking for several pieces of information
they can just get a juicy guide a juicy
how-to video series whatever it may be
in exchange for a very small amount of
info and that's
adding more leads into your sales
pipeline
and there we have it that is my short
and sweet summary of a lead magnet and
how it can help your website to capture
more sales opportunities as always if
you enjoyed it
do hit subscribe and with that said we
shall catch you on the next episode